
What this script does:
       This script tracks the count of defects (nonconformities) found per
       inspection unit over time. Unlike the P-chart, which counts nonconforming
       units (a unit is either pass or fail), the C-chart counts the number of
       individual defects on or in each unit — a single unit can have multiple
       defects. Examples include the number of weld spatter points per panel,
       cosmetic blemishes per device, solder defects per circuit board, or
       documentation errors per batch record.

       The C-chart assumes that each inspection unit represents the same
       opportunity for defects — in other words, each unit is the same size,
       length, area, or time window. If the inspection unit size varies between
       samples, use the U-chart instead. The statistical basis is the Poisson
       distribution: the control limits are calculated as the average count plus
       or minus three times the square root of the average count.

       When the chart is in control, the defect count per unit is stable and
       predictable. When signals appear, it means the defect-generating process
       has changed — perhaps a new operator, a worn tool, a different material
       lot, or an environmental change.

Description: C-chart for count of defects per unit with constant inspection
             opportunity. Applies all 8 Western Electric rules. Accepts either
             'subgroup' or 'id' as the identifying column name. Saves a
             single-panel PNG to ~/Downloads/.

Usage: jrc_spc_c <data.csv>

Arguments:
       data.csv        CSV file with columns: (subgroup or id), defects
       -h | --help     Show this help message

Input CSV format:
       subgroup,defects
       Batch001,3
       Batch002,1
       Batch003,5
       ...

       The first column may be named 'subgroup' or 'id'. The 'defects' column
       must contain non-negative integers. Minimum: 2 subgroups.

Output — Terminal:
       c-bar (mean defects per unit)
       Sigma (sqrt of c-bar), UCL, LCL
       Western Electric rules fired (if any)
       List of OOC points by subgroup/id label
       IN CONTROL / OUT OF CONTROL verdict

Output — PNG (~/Downloads/):
       Single-panel C-chart:
         Points: defect count per unit. Navy = in control, red = out of
                 control.
         Centerline: c-bar (mean count).
         Dashed lines: UCL and LCL (red).
         Dotted lines: 1-sigma and 2-sigma zone lines (orange) for WE rule
                       visual reference.

Interpretation guidance:
       No OOC signals = defect count per unit is stable and predictable.
       IN CONTROL does not mean the defect rate is acceptable. A process
       producing 8 defects per unit on average and perfectly in control still
       needs improvement — control just means the rate is consistent.

       WE Rule 1 (point beyond 3 sigma): sudden large jump or drop in defect
       count — investigate immediately for an assignable cause.
       WE Rules 2-8 (pattern-based signals): gradual drift, runs, or cycles
       in the defect count — investigate for systematic causes such as tool
       wear, operator learning curves, or batch-to-batch material variation.

       For attribute charts, a process in control at a high defect rate still
       needs improvement. Control tells you the process is predictable, not that
       it is good.

Example:
       jrc_spc_c cosmetic_inspection.csv
       jrc_spc_c weld_defects.csv

