
What this script does:
       This script is for processes where you have one measurement per unit or
       time point — for example, one reading per shift, one batch result per
       day, or one patient measurement per visit. It produces two charts: the
       Individuals (I) chart, which plots each value and watches for unusual
       points or patterns in the process level; and the Moving Range (MR) chart,
       which plots the absolute difference between consecutive measurements and
       watches for changes in process variation.

       When a process is stable and predictable, both charts will stay between
       their control limits and show no unusual patterns. Control limits are
       calculated from the data itself — they are not specification limits. A
       point outside the limits, or a non-random pattern inside the limits,
       signals that something has changed in the process and should be
       investigated.

       This chart is the right choice when subgrouping is not practical. If
       you collect one unit per shift, test one batch per day, or monitor one
       patient per day, the I-MR chart is the appropriate tool. For processes
       where you measure small groups of units at each time point, use the
       X-bar/R or X-bar/S chart instead.

Description: Individuals and Moving Range (I-MR) control chart. Plots each
             individual measurement and the moving range between consecutive
             pairs. Applies all 8 Western Electric rules to the I chart and
             Rule 1 to the MR chart. Saves a two-panel PNG to ~/Downloads/.

Usage: jrc_spc_imr <data.csv> [--ucl value] [--lcl value]

Arguments:
       data.csv        CSV file with columns: id, value
       --ucl <value>   Optional: user-specified UCL for the Individuals chart.
                       Use when historical limits are preferred over computed
                       limits from the current data.
       --lcl <value>   Optional: user-specified LCL for the Individuals chart.
       -h | --help     Show this help message

Input CSV format:
       id,value
       1,10.42
       2,10.38
       3,10.51
       ...

       The 'id' column is a label for each observation (shift number, date,
       batch ID, etc.). The 'value' column is the numeric measurement.
       Minimum: 3 observations (to compute at least 2 moving ranges).

Output — Terminal:
       Process mean (X-bar), MR-bar, estimated sigma
       UCL and LCL for both the I and MR charts
       Western Electric rules fired (if any)
       List of out-of-control points by id label
       IN CONTROL / OUT OF CONTROL verdict

Output — PNG (~/Downloads/):
       Two-panel chart:
         Top: Individuals chart — each value plotted in sequence,
              centerline, UCL/LCL (dashed red), 1- and 2-sigma zone
              lines (dotted). OOC points shown in red.
         Bottom: Moving Range chart — absolute differences between
                 consecutive observations, MR-bar centerline, UCL.

Interpretation guidance:
       No OOC signals = process is in statistical control (predictable).
       IN CONTROL does not mean the process meets specification. Whether
       individual values fall within spec is a separate question answered by
       capability analysis (jrc_capability).

       WE Rule 1 (point beyond 3 sigma): immediate special cause investigation.
       WE Rules 2-8 (pattern-based signals): less urgent but still require
       investigation — these detect shifts, trends, cycles, and hugging.

       A process that is in control but producing out-of-spec values needs
       a fundamental process improvement, not tighter monitoring.

Example:
       jrc_spc_imr batch_results.csv
       jrc_spc_imr daily_weight.csv --ucl 10.75 --lcl 9.25

