
What this script does:
       This script tracks the proportion (fraction) of nonconforming units over
       time. Each data point represents one inspection sample: a batch, a
       shipment, a day's production, or any other defined group. You record how
       many units were inspected (n) and how many were found nonconforming
       (defectives). The P-chart plots the fraction defective for each sample
       and draws control limits to distinguish normal variation from signals that
       something has changed.

       The P-chart is an attribute chart: it classifies each unit as either
       conforming or nonconforming (pass or fail). It does not require a
       continuous measurement — only a count. This makes it useful for visual
       inspection results, functional test pass/fail outcomes, or any binary
       classification applied to a group of units.

       This script supports variable sample sizes: the control limits will be
       wider for smaller samples and narrower for larger ones. Western Electric
       pattern rules are applied using standardised values so that the
       variable-width limits do not create false signals from the rule logic.

Description: P-chart for proportion nonconforming. Supports variable subgroup
             sizes. Computes per-subgroup control limits. Applies all 8 Western
             Electric rules via standardised values. Saves a single-panel PNG
             to ~/Downloads/.

Usage: jrc_spc_p <data.csv>

Arguments:
       data.csv        CSV file with columns: subgroup, n, defectives
       -h | --help     Show this help message

Input CSV format:
       subgroup,n,defectives
       Week1,200,4
       Week2,185,7
       Week3,210,2
       ...

       subgroup   Label for each inspection lot or time period.
       n          Number of units inspected in that sample.
       defectives Number of nonconforming units found (must be <= n).
       Minimum: 2 subgroups. All n >= 1. All defectives >= 0.

Output — Terminal:
       p-bar (overall proportion defective, weighted by sample size)
       Note if subgroup sizes vary (variable limits)
       UCL and LCL (shown as constant if n is uniform)
       Western Electric rules fired (if any)
       List of OOC subgroup labels
       IN CONTROL / OUT OF CONTROL verdict

Output — PNG (~/Downloads/):
       Single-panel P-chart:
         Points: fraction defective (p_i) per subgroup. Navy = in control,
                 red = out of control.
         Centerline: p-bar (weighted overall proportion).
         Limit lines: per-point UCL and LCL connected as a continuous line.
                      The lines step wider for smaller samples and narrower
                      for larger samples.

Interpretation guidance:
       No OOC signals = defect rate is stable and predictable.
       IN CONTROL does not mean the defect rate is acceptable. A process can
       be perfectly in control at a 5% defect rate — "in control" means only
       that the rate is consistent. Reducing the rate requires process
       improvement.

       WE Rule 1 (point beyond 3 sigma): sudden spike or drop in defect rate —
       investigate immediately.
       WE Rules 2-8 (pattern-based signals): gradual shifts, trends, or cycles
       in the defect rate — investigate for systematic causes such as incoming
       material changes, operator rotation, or seasonal effects.

       For attribute charts, a process in control at a high defect rate still
       needs improvement. Control tells you the process is predictable, not that
       it is good.

Example:
       jrc_spc_p weekly_inspection.csv
       jrc_spc_p final_test_results.csv

